In this video, we're doing
a couple of quick fiddly things.
We're making ourselves an axe, so
that we have another projectile.
We are stopping defenders from being
placed multiple defenders in one square.
And we're making our
cactus face to the right,
cuz it's been facing to
the left all this time.
So let's jump in and get started.
Okay, we've got another problem and
solution type video.
What's the problem, I hear you ask.
Well, let's see when I place down
a cactus on different places,
I can also place a trophy right
over the top of the cactus.
Which although is kind of a cool strategy,
is not the strategy we want
our player to be implementing.
So if you wanna take this on as one
of those weird random challenges,
where you dig in and
try to figure out why that's happening,
here's a great place for you to do so.
Haven't really taught you
why this is happening.
So I'm not expecting you to figure it
out from scratch, but some of you,
I know, are clever folks, and
you will indeed figure it out,
so see if you can prevent double
placement in the squares.
Okay, I didn't give you a slide on that,
cuz it's not the official challenge for
this video, the official challenge
is going to be much easier.
But let's solve this together,
so the problem is, here we go,
here's our core game area.
This is the thing that we say,
if you're clicking on this, then,
place down a defender.
Remember, we created the code for that.
So what we need to do is prevent the mouse
click from ever reaching this collider,
if there's already something on top of it.
And the way that we need to do that, is to
find our defenders and add a what to them,
so that we can click the space below them,
we need to add a collider.
Okay, so find a box collider 2D.
Put that around the trophy, make sure
it fits the square nice and neatly.
It's looking pretty good.
Apply back to the pre-fab.
Grab ourselves the cactus.
Drop that into the scene,
bloop, and do the same, as well.
Add a Box Collider.
Okay, just tighten that up a little bit.
Make sure it's positioned
right on the exact point and
looks like the box plot is pretty good.
I'm just gonna make it a tiny bit
bigger just to prevent any accidental,
shouldn't have clicked in this square,
but you did.
Okay, so there we go.
We got ourselves a couple of colliders,
apply that back.
Now, when we go and click Play.
And drop down some dudes into the scene,
drop down a cactus.
Now, lets see.
Can we drop a trophy?
No we can't, because the mouse is
hitting the Cactus'' box collider,
and not making it to
the gameplay collider.
Now, let's do a whole bunch of qa,
we can see we've got one here.
This is how, if you're interested
in working in quality assurance, or
qa in the games industry,
this is often what you have to do,
just do a ton of clicking
until you kinda break it.
So what's happening here?
I thought we'd solved this,
I thought we'd fixed this problem.
Well, we've got a little
bit of ZED depth issue.
Let's click the 2D button
to change it into 3D mode.
When I swing around, you can see,
when I line up like that,
everything is on exactly the same plane.
They're all on ZED equals zero.
That means that sometimes our defenders
colliders being clicked first, and
sometimes, it's the game, core game
area that's being clicked first, and
we can't really determine
which one that is.
There's randomness to this
whole kind of ZED depth issue.
What can we do about that?
Well, we just need to push the core game
area away from the camera a little bit.
Which will like this, or we could
just come over to our ZED value, and
change it to, I'm gonna put it to one.
So no fissure definitely.
Click back on the 2D button.
Definitely, it's behind the defenders.
Now, when we click on Play, and if I
place down a defender onto my play space,
I know for sure, gonna pause,
click on the 2D mode.
I know for sure that these ones I've
placed down are gonna be in front of,
where's my core game area?
It's gonna be in front of this game area,
so
it will definitely click on those first.
Okay, so let's deem that a success in that
we've fixed it, and that it's all amazing.
Next up, what I wanna do,
is have a look at my cactus.
Just a little bit of a fix here.
You can see that, well, the cactus, it's
taken me a lot of videos to realize this,
he's facing the wrong way.
And there's two ways
that we can tell this.
The first way is his mouth is kind
of oriented that way a little bit.
So he's not looking at the attackers,
and also the lighting.
It's super important to have
consistent lighting in your game.
You see our trophy?
We've got the light up
in the top-left corner,
which we would probably call 10 o'clock.
We call it based upon where it would
be on a clock, 12 being right above,
6 being right down below, so this is
right about a 10 or 11 o'clock sunshine.
But, my cactus is looking like it's
more like a 2 o'clock sunshine,
so we need to flip the cactus.
And this will be your challenge.
It's something that we've done before.
It's really,
really simple if you know how to do this,
but the challenge is to
make the cactus face right.
Flip, as a hint, the cactus, so
that it faces to the right, and
check that you don't break
anything by doing this.
We'll probably break at least
one thing by doing this.
So there's your challenge.
A little bit simpler,
I'd jump in, take that on now.
See you back here when you've got it done!
What do we need to do?
Well, let's click on our prefab.
Actually no,
I'll do this on the non-prefab, so
we can see the impact of it.
Click on the cactus.
All we need to do is go over to scale and
find the appropriate axis to be scaling.
Is it x?
It is x.
See when we change that it flips.
The cactus, so I'll make that -1.
Now, our cactus is facing to the right,
as it should, looking at the attackers.
What is it that we could've broken,
I hear you ask.
Well, where now is the gun?
The gun is over on the left,
so it got flipped, as well.
We just need to change the position
of the gun over to our forward hand.
Or you could have the gun
on the back hand,
you can have the cactus throwing
the zucchini from behind.
That's fine as well, up to you.
Apply that back to the prefab,
click on Play.
And let's just check
that it's all working.
We can place them down, and
we can't place over the top of each other.
Good, that's still working,
haven't broken that.
Now when my spawners do what spawners do,
everyone's throwing it, yep,
from their forward hand.
Okay, cool.
There's two other things I wanna do in my
tidy-up video here,
is I wanna find my pre-fabs folder, and
just organize this a little bit.
It's starting to get a little bit full.
I'm gonna create a couple of folders.
I'm gonna create a folder for
attackers, a folder for Defenders,
Defenders, and a folder for Projectiles.
Projectiles, and
just shove things in the right place.
Cactus is a defender,
Lizard is a attacker.
Trophy is a defender.
Zucchini is a projectile.
And you know what?
I'll make one more prefab folder, now, I'm
looking at what I've got left over here,
which will be core game type stuff,
so Core Game.
And that will be the canvas,
game camera, level loader, and spawner.
Drag them into Core Game.
Okay, that's a little bit tidier now.
And the other thing I wanna do in this
video, is to make a different projectile.
So here's another good chance for
you to take this on as a quick challenge.
Maybe do this as I'm doing it, see if
you can beat me to creating your axe.
I know there's some
competitive folks out there.
This will be a good challenge.
I said axe,
I've given away a hint of what it is
that I'm gonna make as my projectile.
I am gonna make an axe.
So new game object, create empty.
We will call this Axe.
I'm gonna make our axe rotate as well,
I believe.
And while I'm here, I'll write click
Create Empty, and I will call this body.
So we have an empty child.
On axe, what do we need?
Well, we need the projectile script,
cuz it is a projectile.
While I'm here, I'm gonna change the speed
to 2, cuz I know it needs to go a little
bit quicker, and then, so
we can see it, we'll click on Body.
This is where we want to
add our sprite renderer.
Sprite renderer,
I'll have order in layer 6.
The sprite I will choose by
clicking on the selector button,
is the axe that I've got.
You should have that, as well.
Now, cuz we've chosen the axe, I need to
go to my not in use folder, find the axe
and drag it into, I don't have a folder
for it yet, yeah, so right click.
Create > Folder, this is gonna be,
giving away the content of the next video,
it's gonna be the Gnome.
So we're making ourselves a Gnome
defender in the next video.
So the not in use, grab the axe,
drag it into the Gnome folder.
So we know the Gnome belongs to the axe,
or
we could have it in a projectiles folder,
up to you.
Now, we've got our sprite renderer,
great axe.
What do we need to do on here next?
Well, we need to add ourselves
an Animator, Animator.
Now, I'm gonna do it this
slightly quicker way.
So while clicking on the axe,
I'm gonna find the animation window,
click Create, and in here,
find my Assets, Animations.
This will be Defenders, and
we will call this Axe, what is it?
Axe Throw, Axe Rotation, we'll call
it Axe Throw, and then, save that up.
Okay, and by doing that,
it's created an animator, and
it's created an axe animator controller.
All very handy, but it's place them in my,
let's make sure it's in the right folder,
in Defenders.
There we go, it's in exactly the right
folder where it should be, great.
Now I'm gonna click on
the body of the axe.
Remember, don't do it on the Parent level,
but on the Body level.
That's what we wanna have rotating.
We can do Add Property and
surf down through Body,
Transform, Rotation, click + there.
Okay, we've got our two frames in.
I'm gonna click the record button,
drag the slider down to the 1 second mark,
change my rotation to minus 359, just
about completing a complete revolution.
Unclick Record, just scrub it,
make sure it looks pretty good.
Great, now, if I click on Play,
it hasn't been spawned or
thrown, but
it will do what it's supposed to do.
Bup Bup, flying on.
Now you can see there's a little
bit of a pause at the start and
the end of our rotation.
If we click on Curves, just give ourselves
a bit more real estate here, shift and
mouse wheel, taking forever.
Shift and mouse wheel, okay, there we go.
You can see that we've got
this nice lovely curved curve,
which means that it's going to ramp
into and ramp out of our spin.
Which is cool, that might work,
might be what you're after.
But I want it to be constantly
spinning at a constant rate.
So I'm gonna click Record, again, to make
sure that any changes I do are remembered.
Click on the little dot at the very
end of our wave form there,
the very end of our curve, and
you can see there's a handle on that.
It doesn't get bigger as I zoom in,
sorry about that.
You can see there's that little handle.
I'm gonna move that, so
that it's pointed directly at the other
dot at the start, the other keyframe, and
click on the other keyframe, the first
keyframe, find its handle, and drag that,
so it's pointed at the last keyframe as
well, so that we have a straight line.
Now, unclick Record.
Click on Play.
Give ourselves back our window.
And it should rotate more smoothly as it
flies along a smooth, smooth, smooth.
So great, awesome.
Now it's going a little bit slow.
What can we do about that?
Click back on dope sheet.
Grab our final frame, and
just bring it halfway in.
I think that will mean it does
the same 360 rotation, but
it does it in half the amount of frames,
or half the amount of time, we could say.
Spinning, spin, spin, spin.
Okay, a little of a start or a stop.
I think my curves have gone and
recurved themselves,
so get that straight again,
little bit of a pain doing it this way.
But, look at the control we have over it.
Unclick Record, click on Play,
make sure this is all looking good.
[SOUND] Looks great.
We've got an axe already to have a Gnome,
with which to throw it so that's all for
this video.
Just a couple of bits and
pieces before we do a nice big,
create ourselves a new defender video,
which will be coming up next so great
stuff, and I'll see you again shortly.